.. OTB documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Thu Jul  9 11:22:08 2015
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

Welcome to OTB CookBook's documentation!
========================================

.. image:: Art/logo.png

*The ORFEO Toolbox is not a black box.*

Foreword
========

Since 2006, Orfeo ToolBox has become a rich library used in many
remote sensing context, from research work to operational systems. The
OTB Applications and more recently the Monteverdi tool has helped to
broaden the audience of the library, giving access to its
functionalities to non-developers.

Meanwhile, the `OTB Software Guide <http://orfeo-toolbox.org/SoftwareGuide/>`_ has grown to more than
700 pages of documented code examples, which, combined with the class
documentation with the `Doxygen <http://orfeo-toolbox.org/doxygen/>`_,
allows developer users to find their way through the Orfeo ToolBox so
as to write code suiting their needs.

Yet, the documentation available for non-developers users, using
Monteverdi and OTB Applications to perform everyday remote sensing
tasks, has been almost inexistent for all these years, and these users
had to learn the software by themselves or ask for help from more
experienced users. This cookbook aims at fulfilling the need for an
appropriate documentation of the applications built upon the Orfeo
ToolBox: Monteverdi, and OTB Applications, which are now
integrated into the main Orfeo ToolBox package and provide several
access mode (command-line, QT interface, QGis plugins, other languages
...).

A general introduction to these tools is first presented, along with
installation instructions. Rather than describing all modules and
applications in an exhaustive way, we then decided to focus on very
common remote sensing tasks, detailing how they can be achieved with
either Monteverdi or an application.

For more information on the Orfeo ToolBox, please feel free to visit
the `Orfeo ToolBox website <http://orfeo-toolbox.org>`_.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   Installation
   OTB-Applications
   Monteverdi
   Recipes
   WrappedApplications
   Applications

Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`

